- Previously on Chapelwaite...
You said the only way
to be rid of your curse
was to return it to the undead.
It's with Mary Dennison.
I'm coming for you, demon.
I'll have your head.
I saw my father last night.
It can't be.
Is it really you?
Cousin Stephen
is still out there.
You know what he's capable of.
No!
- I gave her the book.
- Loa!
De Vermis Mysteriis
has found its way home.
Who do you have there?
It's Mary.
Let me go!
- George!
- Save me.
To become undead,
you drink the vampire's blood.
When you die,
you return like them.
We're riding to Jerusalem's Lot
to fight Jakub.
Once I open this book,
it must not be closed.
They will plunge our world
into darkness.
Every one of us will die.
Each page must
be read to raise the Worm.
It's begun.
Child.
You made this possible.
Come...
Stand with me, daughter.
Read the Latin.
When the last page is turned,
we will welcome
the dark together
for all eternity.
O gloriose
Non-nominande,
a tenebris exsurge.
Foedatus est a genere
impurissimo mundus tuus.
No time to spare.
Let's go.
Obliviscet
canis magistri sui.
Servus gradum proprium discet.
Burn it.
Decede.
Oh, dear God.
Prepare yourselves.
Christ almighty.
They're behind us!
There's one behind you!
He's coming!
The heart.
Strike the heart!
- Stay back!
Come on!
There's more!
Get to the trees!
- Rebecca!
Rebecca!
George!
Come on.
Stay with me.
Let's go!
Stay away!
It's you!
Daughter.
No!
Drink and live.
No.
What happened to you?
How...
how could you do this?
You brought Jakub to Maine.
Make it right, Father.
Help us!
Think about Mother.
Me.
Is there any man
left inside you?
Surely you must
feel something?
I feel as much
as I choose to.
Last chance.
No.
All my life,
I made excuses for you.
You didn't deserve it.
You truly are just
a selfish coward.
I'm content with my choices.
I doubt you'll feel
the same way about yours.
What is that?
- Let's get out of here.
They're alive!
What's happening
out there?
There must've been others.
George...
This is it for you.
I want you to stay here.
I'll make a run
for the door.
No, there's too many.
You won't make it.
- I have to try.
- Wait.
Here. Take this.
You might need it.
I hope to see my wife
again shortly.
I hope you do, too.
Come on!
Come on, demons!
Come on! Come on!
Come on, you!
Loa!
Get away from him.
Oh, Whaler.
Jakub, I want that book.
You broke your word.
You were supposed
to bring it to me.
I mistook you
for a better man.
Now, you give me that book
and I'll let you live.
You can have Jerusalem's Lot
for your own.
We can coexist in peace.
That's my offer.
You refuse, you die.
We already exist
in your world,
but it is no life.
We hide in shadows,
feed like scavengers.
But no more.
Now it is your turn.
Then you choose death.
Kill him.
No, Loa.
Loa.
Don't you listen to him.
He's a deceiver.
That monster
does not care about you.
And you do?
Loa. Stop.
Stop now.
This is for Mother.
- Whaler...
Father!
Aah!
I'm going to
bleed you, whaler.
Now you will know
what it is to be Leviathan.
You wanted to bring
the darkness.
Well, here it comes.
- Ah!
Loa.
You have to hide.
You have to.
hide behind there.
I'll come back for you.
Go now.
Charles!
Stephen!
Stop!
The coming of the dark.
It's even more beautiful
than I imagined.
No more.
Look at us.
We're not so different, cousin.
Haven't we both
lost enough?
You're the only
family I've got.
Let's end this fight
and welcome
the Worm together.
Never.
You're a fool.
Your father
feared the book.
He was weak.
Like you.
- Don't do it, Stephen!
- It's over!
Resurgemus.
- Resurgemus!
Get up, you bastard.
Cousin...
Get up.
Blood calls blood, cousin.
Oh...
Loa. Come.
Loa.
Loa, come out.
It's all right.
It's over.
You're safe.
Come.
I'm sorry.
I am, too.
Come.
Come home.
Mister Boone!
Where are the others?
It's just us now.
Leave no trace
of this godforsaken place.
Able.
- Where's Father?
- He's okay.
Don't worry. We're
to meet him at the house.
Oh! Rebecca!
Oh, thank God!
It's over.
It was him.
Father's gone...
for good now.
They won't want to see me.
They'll be scared.
They may be at first.
But we'll prove that there's
nothing to be frightened of.
Father!
- Oh! Ooh.
You did it!
I knew you would!
I was so worried.
It's good to see you both.
Hello, Honor. Tane.
What is she doing here?
She has the book.
Yes.
It has to be with her kind.
That's what keeps us well.
Loa's home now.
Tane, we'll need
water to wash.
Honor, take the horses
to the stable.
Go on.
- Rebecca...
- Tane.
Tane, come with me.
Go on.
They don't want me.
That will change.
Why don't you go
up to your room?
Go on now.
She's right, Father.
I don't trust her.
- She's your sister.
- No, she's not.
Not anymore.
Loa's not the one
to be frightened of.
What do you mean?
You think there are others?
I do.
We still have the book.
They'll come for it.
Honor, stable the horses.
- I don't want her here.
- The horses!
Not another word.
Charles...
I know what you're afraid of.
But you are not your father.
You will know what to do.
No, Tane.
She's not one of us anymore.
She helped me before.
I'm afraid.
Will she hurt us?
She can't be trusted.
She's dangerous.
Able, I need a favor.
Anything, Mr. Boone.
Ride to town,
bring Doctor Guilford.
Yes, sir.
Able,
tell him to bring
his medical instruments.
Of course.
Are you hurt, Father?
Nothing to worry about.
Come in.
I'm sorry about your father.
It's funny.
I should feel melancholy,
but mostly
what I feel is liberated.
What now, Charles?
Where do we go from here?
As long as that book exists...
as long as it's out
in the open,
my children's lives
are in danger.
It's only a matter of time
before...
others like Jakub come for it.
There must be a way out.
There is.
It's not
what I would've chosen,
if I thought
there was any other way.
Don't you worry
what will become of
the children without you?
Of course I do.
But I know what will become
of them if I don't do this.
I have a chance to free
Honor and Tane from this curse.
They can create
their own destiny.
Maybe someday they will...
they'll realize that
this is the greatest gift
I could ever give them.
I want you to know
I will always watch over them.
Whether they
want me to or not.
They will.
They've grown to love you,
as have I.
This should be
the beginning of our story.
Perhaps someday you'll write
a better ending for us.
I hope you will.
Honor.
Tane.
Tane, wake up.
What is it?
Is everything okay?
We need to speak.
Loa?
It's all right.
I know what
you want me to do.
I won't.
I won't do it.
The book needs
to be hidden.
It needs to be kept
from those like Jakub.
It needs a keeper.
Someone who will guard it
from the world.
I'll keep it,
then you'll be okay.
That's not
your responsibility.
I know how difficult this is.
I have to do it.
No.
I made a mistake.
I did it to hurt you.
I wish I could take it back.
You're not to blame.
I should've protected you.
A father's job is to
look after his children.
I failed you.
The guilt that I carry
for that is...
bottomless.
I don't want you to live
the way I have to.
It's terrible in the dark.
- Loa...
- No!
Please listen.
Think of your sister.
Think of your brother.
This book...
will be a plague on them...
until one way or another,
it takes their lives.
Take me with you.
It'll be too dangerous.
You're safer here.
No one will know of you.
It's the only way.
I forgive you, Father.
I love you.
Not for a moment
have I ever not.
Loa.
You've done it, then?
Rebecca.
You should go now.
This is something
you should not see.
That's enough.
It only has to appear
as though we buried them.
If you
don't want to remain here,
where would you want to go?
Nuka Hiva.
It's not
that simple, Tane.
There's an opportunity
for us here.
A home. A business.
What about you, Rebecca?
What will you do?
You'll live with us,
won't you?
For a time,
if you'd like.
Or until you can
no longer stand me.
You're our family now.
Dr. Guilford.
Your father's
death certificate.
Heart failure.
His secret dies with me.
Good night.
Father says
we have nothing to be afraid of.
But how do I know
I can fully trust her?
I spoke with one of them
in Jerusalem's Lot.
Far worse than Loa.
I asked him if there was
any man left inside him.
And he told me
he felt as much
or as little as he chose to.
Loa is choosing you.
My hope is that you can
find it within yourself
to love her
as you once did.
She betrayed us.
And for that
she lost everything.
More than
you could ever take.
It's all right.
We have to show him strength.
Sir, I'll leave you
to your family.
It's been a privilege.
The privilege is mine.
You're a good man, Able.
Thank you, Mr. Boone.
Come with me.
I'll walk you out.
My children.
Saying goodbye to you
is the hardest thing
I'll ever have to do.
Take care of one another.
Be kind, compassionate.
And if life separates you,
always find your way
back to each other.
Never let distance or
words come between you.
Son.
Set your own course.
Be true to that course.
Let no person, misfortune,
deviate you from it.
Leave an indelible mark
upon this world.
I won't disappoint you.
Honor.
You're so brave.
And strong.
And beautiful.
Your mother
would've been proud.
Watch over your sister.
Please.
I'll see you again!
Out there.
I'll be looking for you.
Father!
I love you!
On that strip
of weathered Maine sand,
I watched
as the sea reclaimed
the only man
I've ever loved...
...the sullen white surf
washing him back
where he belonged...
leaving no trail nor care
for all we'd lost.
Let's go.
Charles Boone's
absence is as raw today
as it was
that ill-fated night.
But I find comfort in
the presence of his children,
Honor, Loa, Tane.
In the end,
it was love
that vanquished evil.
And good grew,
like seedlings,
from the ash.